Thank you all for joining us today at the
Cocoa User Interface Programming session.
4.12.
One quick note, there's another session
coming up later on Friday,
which is an in-depth
version of this 4.19.
It's not on your schedule.
After seeing this,
you will want to go to 4.19.
Consider this a requirement.
If you don't sit through this,
you can't sit through
Thank you, I appreciate that.
Today we're going to talk about
some of the coolest additions to
building Cocoa applications out there.
And to take us through it,
Andreas Wendker.
Good afternoon.
So my name is Andreas Wendker
and I manage the Web Objects
Engineering team.
And if you now wonder what
exactly I'm doing here and whether
you're in the right session,
then don't run away,
this really is a Cocoa session.
Cocoa already is the best and the
fastest way to develop desktop
applications for Mac OS X.
And as you saw in the
introductory sessions on Monday,
we will make it even better.
To take a look at the existing
Cocoa applications out there,
you will find that there's actually
a lot of code being written simply
to keep the user interface in sync
with the underlying data objects.
What you have to do is you have to pretty
much write a lot of repetitive glue code.
You have to add a lot of
outlets to your Nib files,
you have to set targets and delegates,
and you have to implement
a lot of methods simply to
react to user interface input.
That is very straightforward
and routine work,
but it also takes a lot of time,
and frankly, it's really boring.
So we decided to do something about that.
And at Panther,
we are going to introduce a
completely new layer of functionality,
a controller layer.
This controller layer will automate
the handling of your user interface
and it will add a lot of features
that you've been asking for.
And of course,
we extended interface builder so
that you can make use of these
new features without writing code.
And the effect will really be that
developing Cocoa applications will
become a lot faster and a lot easier.
This is a screenshot of FineWord,
our code-diffing tool,
and I put it here to give you an
impression of what impact this technology
will have on your own applications.
If you imagine your current
Cocoa applications on the left side
of the picture and the way you would
be able to write that same application
in Panther on the right side,
then as you can see in the bottom there,
there will be only one difference.
Your code, your glue code will be gone.
So the next hour, I'll give you,
first of all,
an overview of how the new API works.
And I will show you that the
concepts of this new technology
are based upon the very known
model view controller paradigm,
which I believe most of
you are familiar with.
And we'll also show you how
you can use Interface Builder
to use the new features.
And throughout this session,
I will get a lot of
help from my colleague,
James Dempsey.
And he's not only going to
drive the demos for you,
he also brought his guitar.
So if you attended WebObject
sessions in the past years,
you know this will be good.
And if not, stay a few minutes
after my summary slide.
And I can say this often enough,
session number 419 will be a
follow-up session to this one.
There's simply so much to talk about
in the context of the controller layer
that we felt we need a second session.
So 419, Friday morning at 9 o'clock.
So with that,
let me bring up James for a first demo.
And he will give you a first
demo of how you can use interface
better with the new features.
Good afternoon,
my name is James Dempsey and
I write in-house Cocoa and
WebObjects applications for Apple.
And what I'm going to show you today is
some of the new features in Interface
Builder that allow you to access the
new controller layer features in Cocoa.
So, let's make a new nib file,
new Cocoa application.
Don't need that menu.
And so let's start out by dragging out
a good old-fashioned checkbox here.
And we're going to use it
to hide or show something,
so I'll label it appropriately.
The first thing you'll notice in
Interface Builder is that we have our
familiar attributes and connections,
attribute, or excuse me, inspectors,
but we also have the addition
of this new bindings inspector.
And the bindings inspector shows
all of the attributes that the
selected view item are exposed or
have exposed to the controller layer.
So they're all things we can
configure with this controller layer.
You'll notice they're
all grouped by category.
So their availability,
whether it's enabled or hidden,
all different items
about the font display,
and of course the value.
So we've got this little rollover.
We click that and we can configure
everything about this binding.
Now, every application has a shared
user defaults controller,
and user defaults have values.
And within there,
we're going to define an arbitrary key.
We're going to call it flag,
ever popular.
And we have just configured that
checkbox to now stuff its value into
shared user defaults under the key flag.
Now let's have something
that actually reacts to that.
We'll drag out a text view,
which of course is enclosed
in an NSScroll view,
which has one available binding hidden.
We'll hook that up to the same
shared user defaults values.
And Interface Builder
remembers we defined a key,
so we can just pick it from the list.
And I head into test interface mode,
and of course when I click the checkbox,
away goes my text view.
And so as opposed to just
having attributes that are
set-able in Interface Builder,
we now have attributes that are dynamic
and propagate through the UI on the fly.
Now, no IB demo would be complete
without a scroll thing in it,
of course.
So let's hit its value.
It's going to go into
user defaults of values.
And we're going to have
it set some font size.
And let's head on over to
the Attributes Inspector.
The two are not mutually exclusive.
You can use both in
conjunction with each other.
And zero is not a very
reasonable font size,
so we'll change that.
24 for the...
Sure, 25, great font size.
All right, let's head on over,
type some text into our text view.
2003, yeah, whatever.
And multiple fonts allowed,
so we have one font.
Go to bindings and set the font size up,
shared user defaults,
going to pull from those values.
Again, that font size.
Go into test interface mode and voila,
I move the slider and something
happens in the user interface.
You've seen that before,
but in the past you've left
test interface mode and
everything you did went away.
But when you're binding
up to a controller object,
this one's a shared user
defaults controller object,
behind the scenes is the actual
NS user defaults object that is
pushing things into the database.
So when I rerun, I persist.
So that kind of gives you an idea
of how little code your preferences
panels might need in the future.
Now back to Andreas.
Thank you, James.
Hi, everyone.
I'm Andreas Wendker,
and I'm the executive director of Cocoa.
So how did we come up
with this technology?
Some of you might know that we
currently have a technology called EOF,
or Enterprise Objects Framework,
which is part of the WebObjects product,
and it's used for database access.
And EOF has a layer that we
call the interface layer,
and it's used to automatically
populate Java swing applications
with content from databases.
So what we have done is we have taken
the ideas and concepts of that layer
and all the lessons we learned from it,
and we've implemented the next
generation of this technology
in Objective-C for Cocoa.
So when we set out, when we started,
we set the following goals for us.
First of all,
we wanted to support a large variety
of use cases and applications.
We certainly didn't want this
to be limited to databases.
We wanted it to be useful
for preferences panels,
for applications like Mail, AdWords Book,
and all the applications
you're familiar with.
We wanted it to integrate easily
into existing applications so
that you don't have to rewrite
your applications completely,
just if you want to make
use of our features.
And we wanted it to be flexible
and extensible so that you could
get good mileage out of it.
We wanted it to be fast,
and we wanted it to have
great interface integration,
and we wanted it to be easy to learn.
Or in other words,
we wanted it to kick ass.
So I hope that at the end of the session
you'll actually agree with me that
we achieved what we set out to do.
So let me now give you an overview,
if I get this right.
Let me actually first recap quickly
what the Model-View-Controller
paradigm is about.
With the Model-View-Controller paradigm,
you essentially split your
application in three parts:
The model,
which represents your data objects
and the underlying logic and rules.
And the view, which handles the input and
the output of your application,
so it consists of all the
windows and views you typically
assemble in an interface builder.
And the controller,
which glues these two pieces together.
The controller is the glue
between the model and the view.
And for the purpose of this session,
we'll keep the interaction and the
roles and the responsibilities of
these three pieces fairly simple.
All I want you to keep in mind
is that when the user enters a
new value in the user interface,
The view will notify the controller
that a change has happened,
and the controller will then apply that
change to the appropriate model objects.
But not all the changes in an
application happen in the user interface.
Sometimes you have the script
running in the background,
or you might have different
views for the same model.
So you might have multiple windows
open that show the same data.
And because of that,
controllers also listen for
changes from the model objects.
They will observe the model objects,
and if they are told that
the model has changed,
they will automatically update the view.
So what are the advantages of the
Model-View-Controller paradigm?
Essentially,
the Model-View-Controller paradigm
makes your applications code more
reusable and easier to extend.
For example,
since the model isn't really concerned
with the details of the view,
it's fairly easy for you to add an
additional window of a different type of
user interface that shows the same data.
You might even be able to use the same
model objects in different applications.
And also,
since the view isn't really concerned
with the details of the model object,
you can easily switch
the data representation.
For example,
you can easily change the class
that you use to represent your
data objects without impacting
the code written for the view.
So in the past,
you had to write the controller by hand.
The glue code that I talked about in
the beginning pretty much formed the
controller layer of your applications.
Going forward in Panther,
we will provide you with a
reusable component with a reusable
controller layer out of the box.
I would like now to give you just
an overview of the most important
features of our controller layer.
Let's start with using any model object.
You can apply the new functionality
of our controller layer to
pretty much any problem domain.
Whether you want to display NS documents,
whether you want to work on
preferences panels and store
preference in the user defaults,
whether you use NSDictionary's as
generic data containers,
or whether you use your
own custom model objects,
you will be able to apply our
controller layer to all these models.
And we achieved that by using
a common data access protocol
that we call key value coding.
Key-value coding is actually already
part of Mac OS X for quite a while now,
but it has only been used
in the context of scripting.
So unless you have made
your application scriptable,
you're probably not familiar with it.
Key-value coding is a unified
way to access properties
of model objects by name,
or as we refer to it, by key.
And we talk a lot more about
this in session number 419.
It's really essential to
understand this protocol.
The second feature,
Automatic User Interface Refresh.
Our controller layer will make sure,
as the Model View Controller paradigm
promises,
that different parts of the user
interface will always stay in sync.
So if you have documents with multiple
windows for the same document to open,
you will not have to write any line
of code to keep the content of those
windows in sync with the data objects.
And we achieved that by using
a common observing protocol,
which we call Key Value Observing.
So key-value observing
allows interested objects,
our controllers,
to register for change notifications
from the model objects.
And when they are told
that something has changed,
they will use that information to
propagate the change throughout
your complete application.
So they will always keep all the views
that display the same data in sync.
And that will happen independent
of how the change was triggered.
So independent of whether the
user entered something in the
user interface or whether a script
was running in the background.
And if you don't use multiple
windows for the same document,
another area where this
will be very visible will be
in the preferences panels.
With our controller layer,
changes in the preferences
panel will apply immediately
to the complete application.
Displaying and editing all
standard Cocoa data types.
So we really went for the full
breadth of functionality in Cocoa,
whether you deal with strings, numbers,
dates, colors, images, fonts, paths,
URLs.
Whether you want to
display in a text field,
in a slide, in an image view,
we pretty much have bindings
available for all Cocoa widgets.
and we have excellent support for
table views to display object arrays.
The one thing that we'll probably
not get to in the Panther timeframe
is support for tree views.
So, and its outline views in its
browser support for those,
we'll probably have to
wait for the next release.
Speaking about table views,
our controller layer will
manage selections for you.
It will track which rows the
user selected in the table views.
And again,
it will synchronize the content of
other widgets with that selection.
So if you have text fields
or other widgets that are
dependent on the selected row,
that show the values of the selected row,
you will make sure that those
widgets stay in sync with the
selection in the table views.
And of course,
we will allow or we will handle editing
of multiple objects the right way.
This is something that actually
requires a lot of code to get right,
but we felt that it makes applications
really more user friendly,
so we put it right in
the controller layer.
So the features I listed so far are
pretty much the essential features you
would expect from any controller layer.
But we wanted to go further.
We wanted to make sure that our features
really helped you create polished,
great applications.
And one area that we found where we
could help you greatly is when it comes
to handling all these different states
you encounter in user interfaces.
So the states we will handle for you,
first of all, the value state,
which pretty much means that a value has
not been specified in the model so far.
We also handle multiple selections.
We handle the state of no selection.
And we even came up with
the not applicable state,
which is intended to be used
if you display different kind
of objects in a table view.
In those cases,
not all table columns might apply
to all the objects you display.
So you don't want the application
to crash in that case.
You want it to be handled cleanly.
So we will do that for you.
What will happen is that when views
query the controller and they ask
for the values to be displayed,
our controllers will indicate those
states through special object values.
We call those object values markers.
And for all the states that
are listed on the slides,
we have a marker object.
And then the views are informed about
the states and can handle it cleanly.
And what you as a developer
will be able to do,
you'll be able to specify
placeholder values.
Let me give you an example of that.
If you ever used address book or
mail to configure new mail accounts,
you might have noticed that the
forms you have to fill out show
some kind of informative text
in gray in the text fields until
you specify a concrete value.
So in our world,
that simply is a placeholder
for the Nile value state.
So placeholders really help you to
create informative user interfaces,
and I really encourage you to
make use of that new feature.
Manipulating object relationships.
Most editing in applications is
just related to simple values
like strings and numbers.
If you want to assign a new
name to a person object,
for example,
all you do is you create a new string
and you assign it to that person object.
But the identity of that string
doesn't really have a specific
meaning to your application.
Many models are more complicated though,
and sometimes you have
complete graphs of objects.
You might have a graph of person
objects and group objects.
And if these groups and persons
are assigned to each other,
you don't want to reference them
indirectly through a name or
an ID or something like that.
You want these objects to
have pointers to each other.
So we call these pointers
that have a real meaning in
your model a relationship,
and we typically distinguish
between two-many relationships,
which are just arrays of references,
and two-one relationships,
which are single object references.
And our controller layer will give you
all the mechanisms you need to manipulate
these relationships and to traverse them,
even if they are multiple levels deep.
So one example could be a
UI where you have two tables,
a table with all the groups and a
table with the persons in those groups.
So the content of the second table,
the person table,
depends on the group that is selected,
and the content is populated
essentially through a relationship
from the group object.
Value Transformers.
Value Transformers represent an effort
on our side to make simplification of
our controller layer simple for you.
They are very small but powerful
objects that you attach to the
bindings of the view objects.
And Value Transformers are
given the opportunity to modify,
to convert values before they are
displayed and convert them back
in a different representation
after they've been edited.
So essentially you can apply expressions
to the values in your model object.
It probably sounds a little
bit like a formatter,
but it's not limited to strings.
It works with arbitrary data types.
And also we have a named registry,
a global named registry
for value transformers,
so that you can easily reference
them from the Nib files.
So you can register your own
value transformers in our
registry and then just specify
them by name in the Nib files,
and then this reference
will be resolved at runtime.
So to give you an idea
of what you can do,
we are planning to ship a few default
placeholders for you in Panther.
One will just negate booleans.
That would be very helpful when you
give enabled flags and things like that.
We'll have transformers that
test values for nil or not nil.
So what we will do is pretty much we
create a boolean depending on whether a
value has already been specified or not.
And we also have a value transformer
to archive values in an NSData.
That last one will be very
handy when you actually talk
to the user defaults database.
Some of you might know that the user
defaults can only store plist objects,
something like strings, numbers, arrays,
dictionaries, and NSData objects.
But they can store
things like an NS color.
So what do you do?
In our world,
with the value transformers,
you can simply use the value
transformer to encode or to archive
the color object into an NSData and
store that in the user defaults.
And then when it's read and
actually displayed in the UI,
it's unarchived again.
So these value transformers we expect
will probably be the most important way
for you to customize our functionality.
The last feature I want to mention
is controlling display parameters.
We've done a lot in this area,
a bunch of different things.
And most importantly, probably,
we have added automatic sorting
and table views for you.
This is something that a lot
of you have been asking for,
and we're finally adding it in Panther.
So what you'll be able to do is you'll be
able to click on the table column headers
and we automatically sort the content of
the table according to that table column.
And if you click a second time,
you'll reverse the sort
order and things like that.
We'll show that to you in the next demo.
Beyond that,
we simply allow you to manage a large
variety of user interface state.
For example, what display colors and
fonts you want to use,
how large windows are,
the window positions,
the width of table columns,
which item in the tab view is selected,
what windows are visible,
what drawers are visible.
And you'll be able to collect
all that state and store it
either in the user defaults
database or within your documents.
So when users leave the application or
reopen documents they closed before,
the application comes up in exactly
the same state as they left it.
So now I'd like to ask James again
to come up on stage and show you an
application that will make use of most
of the features that I just listed.
All right.
I have a little address
manager application here.
And it basically is using the
address book framework to import
everything in our address book.
And I'm going to show you basically
a demo of all the features
Andreas just talked about.
So first let's take a
look at the table view.
You'll notice as I select
items in the table view,
the current selected item,
all of its data gets
updated as you would expect.
I can sort.
Voila, as you might expect.
Notice when I do sort and do not
have a particular row selected,
I get that no selection indicator
in the text fields down here.
And of course if I have
multiple items selected,
I get the multiple selection.
Andreas had mentioned, well,
let's take a look at groups here.
We can add a new group.
Call it my Bridge Club.
Very exciting life I lead.
Make that blue.
And let's select four random people.
Notice I'm not in my own bridge club.
Pick that and obviously that
selection gives me all of the
selected items take on that value and
now the pop-up displays that value.
And I've connected those
people to a group object,
not just a string called Bridge Club.
Let's go take a look at the inspector.
So I have an inspector
that also is changing.
Well,
everybody works in five infinite loop.
That's not very interesting.
There we go.
Let me bring up a new document.
You'll notice as I switch
between documents,
the inspector changes on the fly.
Let me import from
dress book in this one.
Voila.
We'll go to context.
I'll leave it on image.
Now.
Hit Preferences as well.
In Preferences, we can
crank up the row height,
crank up the font size,
and you'll notice that
in both table views,
it's happening live as we update.
Let's save this document.
Save document.
And quit the app.
When we relaunch and
get that document back,
you'll notice that we
get the state we were in.
It remembered that we did
indeed have this pulled out,
and it's back to the way it was.
So that's a sampling of
what's in this control layer.
Thank you, Andreas.
Do you want to show the project?
Which one?
The project.
Do you want to show the project?
Oh, goodness gracious.
The kicker.
I completely forgot that I had
to come here at all since I did
so much in Project Builder.
Documents.
We go to the source code.
So let's take a look at the source
code for that entire project.
It's this much and it mainly deals
with grabbing stuff from address
book and getting and setting
the values into the file system.
That's 69 lines of code including
the imports and the comments.
Now back to you, Andreas.
Thank you.
Okay, so the next step,
I'd like to give you an overview of
the APIs we're introducing in the
context of the controller layer.
And the APIs can be
grouped in three groups.
Some utility classes,
some controller classes,
and a few protocols.
The utility classes,
the new utility classes,
you'll find in the foundation layer.
And the first one is
NSIndexSet and NSMutableIndexSet.
NSIndexSet is a collection to
efficiently manage index information
and to store them in a compact form.
So that's something that we haven't had,
a concept we haven't had before,
but it turned out to be really
important in the context of the
controller layer where we manage
a lot of index information,
selections and what indexes
have changed in the table view,
etc.
So you will see this class and
NSIndexSet in a bunch of our APIs,
but it will probably be useful for many
other cases outside our controller layer.
So I think you'll really like this class.
The second one is an Assort Descriptor.
An Assort Descriptor facilitates our
automatic sorting in table views.
An Assort Descriptor essentially
represents sort criteria.
So they specify the key
that is used for sorting.
They specify how the values are compared,
whether they are case-sensitive
or case-insensitive.
And they specify the
direction of the sort,
ascending versus descending.
And typically, you assemble multiple sort
descriptors in an array to specify
a sort order down multiple levels.
So when you click in the table view,
we will pretty much create an
array of sort descriptors for
you and pass it to the controller
layer to actually perform the sort.
Now I already talked
about NSValue Transformer.
NSValue Transformers
are very simple APIs.
You typically only implement
two or three methods.
And it's just a method to convert a
value from one direction to the other one
and another method to do the opposite.
And you can attach them to the bindings
to customize or control the layer.
The controller classes in Panther,
there will be first of
all an NSController class,
which is just a super class,
an abstract super class of all
the controllers we are shipping.
And if you want to implement
your own controllers,
you should subclass that class as well.
There's going to be an
NSUserDefaultsController.
NSUserDefaultsController is specialized
in talking to the user defaults database.
Typically,
you use only one single instance,
a shared instance of the
UserDefaultsController
in your application.
We made sure that the user
defaults controller is,
to make it really easy for you
to access the user defaults,
we made sure that the
user defaults controller,
the shared user defaults controller,
is so easily accessible
with the Nib files.
That's why it was the one controller
that showed up in the first demo.
So user defaults will be really simple
and transparent for you in the future.
In addition to just talk to
the user defaults database,
you can also use the user defaults
controller to specify initial values.
So if the user never went to
the preferences panel and never
specified preferences values,
you can transparently specify initial
values for those and then they will be
just used throughout your application.
and his object controller and then
this array controller and his object
controller will be used or is used
for displaying and editing a single
object in your user interface and this
array controller is used for displaying
and editing an array of objects.
And typically you use a combination
of those two classes and its object
controllers and its array controllers.
You typically bind the content of
those controllers to each other.
So if you have, you know,
a table or let's say a
document for a person object,
you could create an NS object
controller and place the person
object within that controller.
And if you then want to display
the groups that person is in,
you create an array controller
and bind the content of that array
controller to the parent controller,
to the object controller which
contains the person object and it then
traverses the relationship for you.
The protocols that will be important in
the context of the control area will be,
first of all, NSKValue coding.
I also mentioned that in the beginning.
It's our data access protocol.
And KValue observing is
our observing mechanism,
so it's the one that we use to
receive change notifications
from the model objects.
And we talk about both these protocols
in great detail in session number 419.
Editor tracking is a protocol
that I haven't mentioned so far,
but it will be also very useful for you.
Most Cocoa applications don't
immediately submit changes in the
user interface to the model objects.
Most of the time you wait until
the user presses the tab key or the
return key and leaves the text field,
and only then apply the value.
There's nothing wrong with that.
You just need to make sure
that if you save a document,
you capture those last edits.
So with editor tracking,
views will be able to tell
the controllers that they have
uncommitted changes right now,
and then with a single method call,
you will be able to commit those
changes to the model objects.
You will be able to force
the views to submit their
changes to the model objects,
or to add editing, for example,
before you want to revert.
So bringing up this picture again,
key value coding is the protocol used
when the view talks to the controller
to ask for values and also when the
controller talks to the model objects.
So the arrows in this diagram
don't represent the data flow,
it represents who
initiates the method calls.
And on the way back,
we use key value observing to
tell the controller and the
views that something has changed.
Editor tracking will go back and forth
between the controllers and the views.
So the views will register
with the controllers if they
have uncommitted changes,
and then the controllers,
before a save or a revert,
they will commit the changes
or they will abort the editing.
So those are the protocols.
I'd like to now specify or give
you an idea of a few more APIs that
you will encounter when you start
working with our controller layer.
The first one is our
key value binding API,
which you use to create bindings.
There are two methods,
and these are methods on the view
objects that you want to bind.
So the first method is bind to
object with key path options,
and there's an unbind
method to do the reverse.
Let's take a look at the
arguments to the methods.
The first argument to the bind
method is the name of the binding.
So it typically represents the
property that you want to control.
It's something like text color, enabled,
or value.
The second argument is
the object you observe.
It's typically the
controller that you bind to.
And the key path, the third argument,
specifies what value to use
when you control the property.
And then the fourth argument is simply
an end of dictionary of options,
simply an end of dictionary with several
parameters that you can specify to
influence the behavior of the bindings.
What you typically put in
this options dictionary is,
for example, the value transformer name,
and you can also specify the
placeholders for the various states
I mentioned a few minutes ago.
in this options dictionary.
You typically don't have to
invoke these methods by hand.
These are the methods that
Interface Builder uses when
bindings are established,
but you might have to use them by
hand if you want to bind objects from
different Nib files to each other.
I just talked about specifying the
placeholders in the options dictionary.
And that is important that you can,
for each individual binding,
specify placeholders,
but we expect that most of the time
you will want to use generic terms,
something like no selection,
multiple selection, et cetera.
So to make that easier for you,
we defined an API where you can
set default placeholder values
for your complete application.
And these are class methods, again,
methods that you invoke
on the view classes,
for example, on as text field.
And they are called
setDefaultPlaceholderForMarkerWithBinding
and
defaultPlaceholderForMarkerWithBinding.
So the arguments here are first
of all the placeholder value,
then the marker.
And for the marker,
you will either pass in nil to
indicate the null value state,
or one of the three object
values I listed here.
And it's multiple values marker,
and it's no selection marker,
and it's not applicable marker.
So these are the marker object
that we defined to indicate the
different states to the view objects.
And you simply pass the marker object
to the setDefaultPlaceholder method.
And then the third argument
is the binding name.
So per binding,
you can define different placeholders.
Another API that will be very useful
for you is an API that you can--if
you have subclasses of views that have
additional parameters that you want
to expose to the controller layer,
then as long as you have a key
value coding compliant--as long as
you have key value coding compliant
methods for this parameter,
pretty much just a simple
set and get method.
As long as you have that,
you can expose the parameters
simply by invoking the class
method exposed binding.
You typically do that in the
initialized method of your class.
And once you invoke it
to the parameter name,
the binding will show up automatically
in interface builder and everything
else will be taken care of.
There's also an instance method,
exposed bindings,
which returns all the available
bindings for an object,
including the ones that we provide.
and optionally you can implement
the method value class for binding,
which is pretty much used in
interface builder to match other
objects against the bindings.
So for example, you can filter out what
value transformers do not
apply to a given binding.
So it's optionally for you,
but if you do, it's helpful for interface
builder if you implement it.
If you need to go beyond a
simple key value coding binding,
then you will have to override
the bind method at this time.
And in the bind method,
you have to pretty much register the
state that you need for your binding
by hand and track that yourself.
So simple key value coding
bindings are very simple to expose
with a single method called.
Beyond that,
override the bind method and pretty
much manage the state yourself.
The last API I want to list here is the
API that you use to populate the content
of the object and array controllers.
The method is simply called setContent.
And you can invoke it by hand, manually,
or more commonly,
you'll probably use bindings
to bind the content of the
controllers through relationships.
The names of the bindings are object
relationship and array relationship.
So I'd like to ask James to come
up on stage again and give you a
third demo of Interface Builder
with the more advanced features.
Okay, let's make another new nib file.
Oops, wrong app.
There we go.
Another new nib file.
This time,
let's go a little bit deeper into how
I set up and configure these bindings.
So if we take a look,
we have a new palette
in Interface Builder,
the Binder palette.
It has the user defaults controller,
the object controller,
and the array controller
that Andreas talked about.
And we'll start with an array controller.
And if we look at the attributes
of an array controller,
you'll notice that by default,
that array controller is going to be
holding onto NSMutable dictionaries,
which we can use as a generic
container to hold any key value pairs.
However,
you can use an NSArray controller
to hold an array of any key value
coding compliant class in your model.
Let's add a few keys.
Of course, we can add them on the fly,
but it's just a little easier to do
it all at once for demo purposes.
We're going to put in a flag, a string,
and an aptly named number
as our items there.
And let's hook this
array up to a table view.
There we go.
So we'll add another column,
drag that on out.
Get that a little wider.
Set for multiple selection.
Now, how do we hook this up?
Select the table view,
let's call this one flag.
Go to the bindings and
set the value of this.
Instead of pulling from
shared user defaults,
we'll pull from the NSArrayController.
The controller key,
the array controller has a key that will
let us get at all of the arranged objects
or just the items that are selected.
We want all the objects,
so we'll pick that and
choose flag for this column.
In fact, we're going to make this one of
these handy dandy checkbox columns.
You can clap, feel free.
For the string, we'll hook that up,
shared user, excuse me,
that NSArray controller,
arranged objects,
we'll go for the string.
And this time,
if somebody hasn't typed in something,
we'll put in a null placeholder.
So we'll say no value.
In the last column,
we'll display a number.
But this time we'll display it using
one of these handy-dandy slider cells.
And we'll set that value up to be
NSArrayControllerArrangedObjects.
Notice a pattern.
Number.
And we're also going to just
make sure that those cells,
click that little widget
to get to the cell,
has reasonable min and max values.
There we go.
Great.
Now let's add an add and remove button.
There we go.
Option drag.
We'll line them up all Aqua-y like.
Okay.
We can use regular old target action.
A NSArrayController has an add
action that we can hook up to and a
remove action that we can hook up to.
Let's get a little more room here.
and add a text view to show the
selected object and a checkbox
to show that selected flag.
Again, go to the bindings,
hook that value up, shared user,
excuse me, that NSArrayController,
and this time we want the selection,
not all the arranged objects,
and we're going to hook
that on up to the string.
And this time around,
if there are multiple items selected,
we'll say multiple items selected.
That might be clear enough.
If there's no selection,
we'll say no selection.
And if null, we'll say,
"Please just type wacky
stuff like nothing."
And then for the flag,
we'll hook that up to
the array controller,
selection, and flag.
Finally,
let's just bring color into this here.
And we're going to have this
color going to shared user
defaults values as a font color.
And we'll hook that up to the font color.
Where are we?
There it is, text color.
Shared user defaults, values, font color.
Should it work, Andreas?
I think so.
OK.
Of course, I should say.
All righty.
So first things first,
we hit Test Interface mode,
and we can ship.
I'm pretty much ready at this point.
So we got that no value hanging out
there because there is no value.
If I select it, obviously,
I'll type in there.
Bob.
Let's add some people.
What'd I do?
Uh-oh.
Oh dear.
I broked it.
Alright.
For just such an occasion...
I did the cooking class
thing and worked one out.
So let's add a few items here.
Honest to God, come see me,
it works on my PowerBook.
Put in Phil, some Jerry,
misspelled Jerry, and Yolanda.
Of course, we do all of this fun stuff,
give some settings.
We select along and obviously
we get what we're selecting.
We do a multiple selection.
We get the mixed state for the checkbox.
We get bobs are both the same value,
so it puts the value in there.
If we add fill to the mix,
it jumps to multiple selected.
Now of course,
maybe that's one Bob too many,
so we'll get rid of him.
We can sort.
This is so tough to do.
Oh, it's killer.
Let's see,
is that pretty much the whole pup?
I know what I did.
Dag Navit, I think I know what I did.
And I'm going to show you.
I forgot one handy thing that many
beginning Cocoa programmers forget,
which is that you can't just put
an NSColor into the user defaults.
Why?
It has to go in as an NSData.
So I'm going to use this
transformer to do that.
And then when it comes back out,
I have to turn it from
an NSData into a color.
Now this was not pre-planned,
I just screwed it up,
but let's see if that now works.
That's fix and continue.
I believe that is all that I have,
and thank you very much
for your kind indulgence.
Thank you, James.
So a few more things before I wrap up.
I've read about performance.
We spent a lot of time on
tuning our refresh logic.
And if you get detailed
enough observer notifications,
we actually tuned the refresh down
to single cells and table views.
So we only redraw the minimum area in the
user interface that we have to redraw.
And of course,
we added a few caches in the right
places to further enhance that.
To make you curious
of session number 419,
through the introduction
of key value coding,
we introduced a level of indirection.
You're not invoking
methods directly anymore.
You're referring to values by name.
So key value coding calls are
a tiny little bit slower than
direct method invocations,
nothing that you have to worry about,
really.
But if you get into millions of
objects on the screen at the same time,
you need to know how
key value coding works.
So you need to use it
the way it is intended.
And for session 419,
we'll talk about all the details.
So if you like this new functionality
and you want to start using it,
the good news is you don't have
to rewrite your application.
We have made sure that our
controller layer can easily
coexist with the traditional
glue code that you wrote so far.
So we recommend that you start
using the functionality soon.
You'll probably get a better
user experience because
of our selection handling,
the automatic sorting, the placeholders,
the user defaults.
You might even see improved performance
because of our tuned redraw logic.
And since you'll be able to phase
out a lot of your glue code,
you will simply reduce
your maintenance cost.
Less code is always good.
And also,
if you start using our controller layer,
you will be much better
prepared for future releases.
If we add features in
Cocoa in future releases,
you'll just be able to get them for free.
You just need to start using
the controller layer now.
But the seed that you have in
your hands is a better version.
So there are a few things you need to
know if you want to play around with
the seed that you have in your hands.
First of all,
there's unfortunately very little
documentation available for
the controller layer right now.
The documentation is still forthcoming,
so at this time we have to point you
only to the headers that you find in
the foundation of the AppKit framework.
And also there are a few pieces
missing in the implementation.
Most importantly,
the controllers and the seed do not use
the key value observing mechanism yet.
So when I talked about the automatic
propagation of changes to the
user interfaces that won't work,
what we will refresh automatically for
you is all the pieces of the UI that
are controlled by the same controller,
as you saw on the Nib files here,
it all worked.
But if you go across multiple
controllers for the same model objects,
we won't--the automatic
propagation of changes won't work.
Also,
please treat the available bindings and
the names of the bindings as preliminary.
You might make a few
more changes in there.
And another thing that you need to know
is that when you start using our value
and content bindings for individual
widgets-- we are starting to take over
the targets and delegates at this time.
So if you have a checkbox and
you bind the value binding,
you will not be able to specify
a target action anymore for it.
We will take ownership of that.
So we resolved that for the GM.
We fixed that, of course,
but it might impact how fast you
can adopt the new technology.
And in general,
I'd like to recommend that you use
the 10.2 and later Nib file format
in interface builder because that
greatly enhances compatibility.
So this is all a brand
new implementation.
It's a brand new feature.
And so please submit back reports.
It's in your own interest.
And also, if you have ideas and thoughts,
we'd like to know about them.
So please use the Cocoa feedback
at group.apple.com mailing list.
We won't guarantee your response,
but we promise that we will read all
your input and take it into concern.
So in summary, in Panther we are adding a
great new functionality for you,
a controller layer that will automate
a lot of your user interface handling.
It will get rid of a lot of code
that you had to write so far.
And we thought a lot about
customization with value
transformers to make that easy.
And as you saw,
we extended interface barriers so
that you can use the new functionality
without writing any single line of code.
So with that, it's time for what
you've been waiting for.
James!
So I guess it was just a little
while ago and I had the good fortune
to see this technology before
it was rolled out here at WWDC.
And as sometimes happens with
technologies that I get stoked about,
the first thing I do is go to the iTunes
music store and type in some keywords,
see if there are any songs about it.
And there weren't any.
Not one song about Model View Controller.
So then, of course,
the next step is I tend to write one.
So this year's song is a
Model View Controller song.
And once again,
I thank you for your kind indulgence.
Are we good to go?
Am I good to go?
We're going to switch
over to demo machine,
the one Victor's in front of.
One or two?
[Transcript missing]
♪ There's a paradigm for factoring
your code ♪ ♪ Into functional segments
so your brain does not explode
♪ ♪ To achieve reusability you
gotta keep those boundaries clean ♪
Model on the one side, view on the other,
the controllers in between.
It's got three layers
like Oreos do Model view,
creamy controller
represent your applications rays on
detra custom classes that contain data
logic and etc you create custom classes
in your apps problem domain then you can
choose to reuse them with other views
but the model objects stay the same you
can model a throttle in a manifold model
of a two year old model a bottle of fine
Chardonnay bottle all the collado stops
people say model the coddle in a boil
in eggs model the waddle in Hexley's
legs one two three four model you you
can model all the models opposed for GQ
♪ Cocoa's got a lot of those
♪ ♪ Well written to its credit
♪ ♪ Take an NS TextView,
hand it any old unit code ♪
[Transcript missing]
and Probably wondering how data
flows between model and view.
The controller has to mediate
between each layer's changing state
to synchronize the data of the two.
It pulls and pushes every changed value.
Yeah.
Model view.
Mad props to the small
talk crew for model view.
[Transcript missing]
"They model in view very intimately.
They often are hard coding which
is very foreboding for reusability.
any value you select
to any view property.
And I think you'll stop buying
and then you'll be finding
less code in your source tree.
Yeah, I know I was astounded.
That's not even a rhyme.
But I think it bears repeating
all the codes you won't be
needing when you hook it up in IB.
Model view,
it even handles multiple selections too.
Model view controller.
Model view.
Hope I get my G5 before you.
[Transcript missing]
This is the roadmap
for the Cocoa sessions.
I make this short, so 419 again.
And the Cocoa Feedback Forum is probably
the other one that will be important.
These are the usual contacts.
Again, send feedback to
cocoafeedback@group.apple.com.
For more information,
documentation is forthcoming.
Please check the headers at this time.
And we also don't even
have demo code available,
but we'll try to do that in
the next one or two weeks.
So please check the
ADC member site again,
and we'll try to put
some demo code there.
And with that,
I'd like to ask a few colleagues to come
up on stage and take some questions.